A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
Cats have 3 eyelids.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
